This video is brought to you by Squarespace checkout.
They're amazing all in one platform through the link of description below more
on them in a bit,
Picture the scene you're lost in a snow storm in one of the coldest places on
the planet. You take refuge inside a small curve of,
but the falling snow soon traps you in, you have to dig yourself out,
but you don't any tools. You try using your hands,
but you start to lose feeling in your fingers. After just a few minutes,
you need something solid and relatively sharp.
So what do you do if your name was Peter Fren, then the correct answer was,
do you freeze your excrements in the shape of a chisel and dig yourself out of
your IC tomb? And when he wasn't busy exploring the Arctic waste,
frien was biting the Nazis or building a career in Hollywood. Yes.
The poop story is one of the most famous tales in the ans of polar exploration,
but it is just one of the many adventures of today's subject, Danish Explorer,
Peter fre,
Loren, Peter Alfred FRN was born on February the 20th,
1886 in the city of NACO being foster in Denmark,
one of seven children of Loren Bens, Andreen, and Anne re Moin,
according to his own admission in his memoirs, VA Viking.
Our main source of information today F Fren was a very ugly baby.
It said that in last few years,
the biggest compliment he ever received was being called a funny little thing,
and that his mother would always take the family dog, big yellow,
angry Martin walks with baby Peter so that people would be afraid to approach
and look inside the stroller.
That being said young Peter was very devoted to his parents and vice versa and
is said that they were both excellent storytellers it from his mother that FRN
got his first taste of adventure.
As she often regaled him and his siblings with stories of her own father who had
been a sailor with a life full of exciting exploits,
including taking part in revolutions in south America.
Another important influence on his life was his uncle Kristin,
who had used to be a gold prospector in Australia and would tell stories of his
adventure is whenever the family visited as a child,
Peter developed an interest in science.
He liked to conduct experiments that more often than not led to mine,
a property damage or mild physical harm,
his natural curiosity persuaded him to pursue higher learning.
So FRN enrolled at the university of Copenhagen to study medical science after
graduating from high school. However,
it did not take long for Peter to discuss other that the medical career was not
for him. The other students were smarter than him. More eloquent,
better mannered, and better dressed.
He started to fit in better when he joined an acting group that staged series of
comedies.
One of them was about a Danish Explorer named Ludvig Myas eon and
hearing about his exploits peaked Frick's interest.
Eventually he met this man who was supporting of,
of the idea of Freon following in his footsteps that became the med students,
new ambition, a life of an adventure,
exploring the unknown reaches of the planet before doing that. However,
Freon realized that it would be a good idea for him to finish his studies,
which he did graduating with a PhD C or candidate in philosophy,
a master's level degree awarded in Scandinavia with the studies outta the way.
Erickson agreed to take Peter on his next expedition,
which was intended to explore and chart the last remaining unknown parts of
Greenlands on its Northeast coastline. However,
fro soon discovered a common problem that plagued almost every Explorer money
Erickson was having trouble securing the funding necessary for his expedition,
eventually king Christie and the 10th of Denmark agreed to cover half of the
costs, but the other half needed to come from private benefactors.
BS Erickson found one incredibly puritanical businessman willing to give him the
money,
but he confronted the Explorer after hearing the scandalous rumor that during
the summer E had the goal to go to the beach and bathe in the company of a
woman. Clearly the Explorer was nothing but a scour and a corruptor of public
morals. So the offer was rescinded.
Eventually Harrison found other backers who had less stringent views on beach
etiquette and obtained the funding necessary for the expedition. Afterwards,
he rounded up his crew and secured a ship Magine, which was E christens.
The Denmark there's the most junior member of the crew.
The 20 year old Peter Freon would work in the engine room,
mainly as a Stoker in August, 1906,
the ship set sell a Greenlands and the Denmark expedition began
The Denmark expedition to be a fatal disaster, right from the start.
There were problems. The ship was old and slow and the wood was rotten.
So after just three days at sea, the GAFE broke.
So the D Mar hater dark in port again, to get it repaired.
Ericson immediately told the newspapers that they encountered a violent storm,
but his claim was counted by other captains who sailed the same waters and knew
the truth. Meanwhile,
the extra repairs meant extra expenses and the financial backers considered
removing Erickson from his command,
or even canceling the expedition entirely the Explorer set sale as quickly as
possible to avoid these outcomes.
The expedition arrived in Greenland toward the end of August. However,
they couldn't simply rush out into unexplored territory,
that to wait for spring,
which meant that they would be spending the winter in the Arctic.
This was a dream come true for Peter fre and his tasks mainly involved doing
manual labor and going on hunting trips for bears and wares,
but also serving as an assistant to the expedition's doctor.
Thanks to his medical degree. The doctor was Alfred Wang,
the scientist who had later achieve fame for his hypothesis on continental
drift, to precursor, to our current model of tectonics,
being responsible for the large scale motion of continents during their winter
stay.
The most serious problem occurred when several men fell ill after eating at
tainted bears liver, but everyone eventually recovered.
It was the first of many lessons that Fren learned about polar survival from the
local Greenland Inuits who never ate the liver,
even though only some of them were poisonous by finally spring arrived and 10
man teams set off on dog sleds at the end of March being a complete novice in
Arctic exploration. Roy was not among them,
but this might have been for the best because the expedition wanted to chart
several areas. Multiple teams split up at theirs points during the Trek.
The longest,
most difficult journey was left to a three man team consisting of cartographer.
Neil's Peter ho Hagen, Explorer, Jorgen Bruns,
and the leader of the expedition Ludvig mileage Erickson. Unfortunately,
all three men perished on their crossing.
Thanks mainly to bad weather conditions, pour hunting and incorrect maps.
Despite the tragic loss of life, the,
and was technically a success since it accomplished its goals before his death
Hagen mapped out the unfamiliar territory and Erickson kept detailed notes of
their journey. Both the maps and the diary were later recovered by another team.
Although only Brolin's body was ever found in 1908,
the survivors made their way back to Denmark,
where they received heroes welcome and were decorated with the order merits by
the new king Frederick, the eighth FN had a brief attempt to resume his studies,
but he proved to be way too restless to ever Excel in a classroom.
It was clear that seeing firsthand how Arctic exploration could easily prove
fatal did nothing to dampen his adventurous spirit.
Only another trip to the cold north, which satisfy him. Of course,
such expeditions do not happen at every day.
So until the opportunity presented itself,
F FRN needed to find some way to make a living.
He found his good fortune in 1909,
when words started spreading around the globe that American Explorer Frederick
cook had become the first person to reach the north pole.
Fricken received a message from the editor of Denmark's largest newspaper
Politicon who wanted to cover the story,
but did not have anyone on staff who knew anything about the north pole.
He commissioned F to write an article about Cook's accomplishments,
and it was good enough that he put the Y Explorer on the payroll.
A source of income was well and good,
but what freaking really wanted was to leave on another expedition.
Fortunately for him, it just befriend. You can a Ramer person.
He described as the one man who came to me more to me than the other man in my
whole life Rasmussin was an Explorer like FRN,
but he was already a respected veteran by the time FRN left on his first trip,
plus Rasmussin was born and grew up in Greenland among the Inuit.
So he learned all of the tips and tricks of Arctic survival from a young age
together, the two of them would embark on a decade long trip to Greenland. Now,
if you want to embark on a glory us journey that ends at a great website,
then you need to partner with our longtime friends at Squarespace,
look around the internet.
Isn't just for 14 500 corporations and code savvy programs anymore. Ordinary.
Everyday people are starting businesses and blogs online every day.
The world really is yours and Squarespace is the perfect web tool.
Happy fashion it into whatever you want it.
You're looking to get in and out quick,
without thinking too much about what your website should look like or use one of
their quick and beautiful templates to make a website that's fresh for you.
Or maybe you're more of a hands on person.
You've got lots of opinions and ideas about what exactly your site should look
like while Squarespace gives you all of the customization options that you could
ever once with no updates, no patches, no technical BS to worry about.
I want you done setting up your website, tinkering with the design.
If you are so inclined or maybe just playing with the colors,
there are so many extra features that Squarespace provides that your website can
thrive. Email campaigns, patronage, portals, social integrations, member,
only areas, analytics, commercial options, 24 7 customer support.
Everything you could ever want really is in one place.
So when you are ready to get started on that next project of yours,
big or small, if evolves a website, it's gotta be with Squarespace right now,
you can go to squarespace.com for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch,
go to squarespace.com forward slash biographics to save 10% off your first
purchase of a website or a domain, let's get back to today's video.
In 1910, the dynamic du left on their first voyage.
The Arctic together on this journey,
their goal was to set up the most northly trading post in the world,
which would serve two purposes.
One to act as a home base for future missions and two to trade with the local
Inuit who were eager to exchange first for tools on this occasion,
fre Rasmuson went to Greenland alone.
They knew that they could live among the local since they were all friends with
Rasmuson. In fact,
the first thing they had to do when they arrived was to travel from house to
house, accepting gifts of food, because refusing even just one person,
would've been a great insult,
therefore that Danish explorers stuffed themselves with caribou wars and other
Meads until they collapsed and fell asleep.
That was the start of another winter spent in Greenland for Freon.
The Rasmus built a cabin for themselves and often went hunting with the locals.
They established a trading post in the Northwest of Greenlands and named it Thun
because in ancient Roman cartography,
that was the term for the far this north location.
It proved to be a very popular spot within youit.
Since at the time there had few options when it came to trading further and
modern tools with each passing day,
fricken felt more a home in Greenland and his desire to ever return to Denmark
steadily diminished. In 1911, he married an Inuit woman named Navara.
The couple went on to have two children together before she died in 1921 during
the Spanish blue epidemic in 1912 Fren.
And Rasmuson embarked on what became known as the first Thula expedition
accompanied by two Greenlands the explorers intended to map some of the more
obscure regions of the gigantic islands and to establish once and for all,
whether the PII channel was real or art first named and described in 1892 by
American Explorer, Robert Perry, the PII channel supposedly separated an island,
which he creatively named Perry lands from the rest of Greenlands,
but there was Delta over period's observations and more accurate maps were
necessary for better and safer Arctic exploration. In fact,
it was the search for the PI channel that caused the tragedy of the Denmark
expedition that led to the death of my Erickson and his team. Therefore,
Pete Toren might have felt a bit of justice when he proved Perry wrong following
a five month voyage and Remus showed conclusively that the period channel did
not exist. And the period land was in fact,
just a peninsula at the Northern tip of Greenland.
The first Dule expedition was hailed as one of the most daring and most
successful POed journeys ever undertaken on dog sleds.
It garnered enough attention that F Fren and Rasmuson returned to Denmark for a
while to receive various accommodations and give multiple lectures.
F Fren stayed for a few weeks, but eventually returned to Greenland,
which he now considered is true home.
Rasmussin organized a few more expeditions over the following years,
but Fren did not participate in all of them as he was more concerned with
raising a family.
Plus with world war I taking place on the global stage supplies from Denmark
became scarce. Even if the country was neutral,
therefore Fren had to make sure that his home was kept properly stocked,
which meant less time to go off on Arctic adventures.
And he said there were a few events during these years that kept things
interesting in 1918 foren took his wife and kids to Copenhagen for the first
time. So they could see the big city. The following year.
He served as a technical advisor on a Danish film.
His first brush with the movie industry before Hollywood would come calling a
decade later. Lastly, in 1921,
it was one of the guests of honor when king Christ and visited Greenlands
celebrate the 200th anniversary of Danish missionary,
Hans ADIs first landing on the island,
As we mentioned,
90 21 was also the year that Frick's wife Navara died from the Spanish flu after
a burial F fr sought something to take his mind off the grief.
So he joined dress moose in on his fifth and most ambitious th Le expedition.
This one did not seek to explore and map new lands though,
but rather to study the Inuit people themselves and try to determine the origins
of their culture and their language for this.
The team traveled into the Canadian Arctic to meet with many Inuit groups who
lived in these remote regions and try to make note of their customs.
This was definitely the most of the sole expeditions.
There was an archeologist on the trip and an ethnographer fr handled the
cartography and collection of biological specimens while S muon was in charge of
collecting information about the intellectual and spiritual culture of the
Inuits. After three years,
the bench result was a 10 volume work written by Rasmussin,
which was at the time, the most detailed account ever on, on the Inuit people.
Although the trip was successful,
it did prove particularly challenging for Peter Fren.
Thanks mainly to his near death experience. The led to the infamous poop story.
It all happens when Fren got separated from his group in a snowstorm,
he took refuge and a Tavas and fell asleep,
but he woke up to find that it had been snowed in his tools were on his sled.
So we tried digging out with his bare hands, but this didn't work.
So we relied on the only resource he had available, but well,
we'll let him describe the events.
I had often seen dogs D in the sled track and had noticed that it would freeze
as solid as a rock would not be cold. He the same effect on human discharge,
repulsive as the thought was, I decided to try the experiments.
I moved my bowel from the ex. I managed to fashion a chisel like instruments,
which I left to freeze this time I was patient.
I did not want to risk breaking my new tool by using it too soon while I waited
the whole air made, filled up with fresh snow. It was soft and easy to remove,
but I had to pull it down into my grave, which was slowly filling up at last.
I decided to chisel my way and it worked very J and very slowly,
I worked at the hole. As I dug.
I could feel the blood trickling down my face from the scars where the beard had
been torn away. This story has often been retold by others, but the question is,
is it true? Well, that's hard to say since nobody else has tried to repeat it,
but a team of anthropologists from Kent state university did come very close.
When they tried to make a usable knife out of frozen human feces,
their experiment,
which was published in the journal of archeological science was not specifically
trying to prove or disprove Franken's account,
but rather they were putting to the test,
an old Inuit story about a man who made a knife this way to skin and butcher a
dog. They took into accounts in multiple variables,
such as temperature and diet,
but concluded that it was not possible under any circumstances. However,
it's important to note that they tried to make a knife,
whereas fr claim to have fashioned a chisel like tool.
There are a few differences between the two chief among them.
The fact that the chisel is much thicker and sturdier than a knife blade.
So fr story does remain plausible. A thing that it happened.
It still took a heavy toll on fr by the time he escaped the KVA,
his left leg was frozen solid,
and the Explorer had to crawl for hours before he made it back to camp.
Gang green had set in and the flesh began to strip away from the foot until you
could see bone using an Inuit treatments.
One of Frens companions managed to stop the gang green from spreading,
but the toes were beyond salvation one day for he even got sick of seeing his
skeleton extremity.
So he removed them with a pair of pencils and a hammer expecting what he
described as an excruciating pain that cut into every nerve of his body.
At the very least,
this allowed him to put a boot on and hobble around instead of being bedridden.
Ultimately the damage done to his left leg proved too great and broken,
had to have the whole foot amputated. His days of Arctic exploration were over
The fifth tole expedition ended in 1924. And Peter Frauen returned to Denmark.
Once again, that same year,
he got married to the second time to a woman named Magdalene van loon,
who came from a rich family that made its money in margarine,
whether he liked it or not frequently to transition to a life outside the
Arctic, he resumed writing for the Politicon again.
And his new brother-in-law made him the editor of a magazine called at home and
abroad. He started a career as a writer where he found considerable success.
Frick wrote over 30 novels and memoirs in his lifetime.
Then he pared his writing fame into a movie career specializing as a consultant
and technical advisor earth Arctic related projects. During the 1930s,
Fren worked for MGM studios and split his time between Denmark and America.
His biggest success in Hollywood was the 1933 Oscar winning movie Eskimo.
It was based on tour Frens books.
So he received writing credits and he was also featured in the film in the role
of captain during the promotional tour of Eskimo Fren experience.
For the first time, the new threat that was sweeping Europe,
the rise of Adolf Hitler himself,
part Jewish fro began helping refugees and dissidents who came to Denmark to
escape the Nazi regime.
Although this became increasingly harder as the country had its fair share of
political and military figures who were Nazi sympathizers when world Wari broke
out,
Denmark became at first a protectorate than an occupied territory of Germany.
FRN became involved with Danish resistance,
although he couldn't fight directly at that point since he was in his mid
fifties and only had one leg even.
So he kept helping refugees and took part in sabotage missions.
He got arrested twice by the gustapo and was beaten and tortured.
After the second arrest,
FRN was sent to a labor camp where he would've undoubtedly been executed.
If he did not escape in time. According to him,
almost everyone was found guilty when their trials came around and were
sentenced to death.
Even those who were not were still killed by being released outside the camp and
then shot while resisting arrest.
But F Frens friends managed to orchestrate his escape before this time and KA
and he made it safely to Sweden. When the war ended,
Peter FRN made a permanent move to the United States. He divorced his wife,
which was merely a formality as the two had been separated for years during his
time with the underground resistance later that same year F FRN married his
third and final wife, a fashion illustrator named dag MarkOne.
His wife began getting back to normal. He resumed his work with MDM.
Steve EOC went on lecture tours. He wrote more books.
He did some work for the United nations,
but his adventuring days were mostly behind him. At this point.
FN had one last brush with fame in 1956,
when he appeared on the American quiz show, the $64,000 question,
he won the big prize, answering questions on the topic of the seven seas.
Peter F Crogan died of a heart attack. The following year on September,
the second, 1957, age 71,
he was then cremated and his ashes were spread around sole as a place which had
shaped and defined the Explorer's legacy more so than any other.
So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up button below.
Don't forget to subscribe and as always, thank you for watching.